Docs part #2 (#167)
greenbone/gvm-tools: docs/connectiontypes.rst

.. _connection_types:

Connection Types
================

Before being able to talk to a remote :term:`GMP` or :term:`OSP` server using

> one of the :ref:`provided command line clients <tools>` the the user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
one of the :ref:`provided command line clients <tools>`, the user
```

some setup and possible adjustments at the server side.

.. _socket_connection_type:

Unix Domain Socket
------------------

The Unix Domain Socket is the default connection type of :term:`gvmd` in the
:term:`Greenbone Source Edition <GSE>`. It is only usable when running the
client tool at the same host as the daemon.

The location and name of the Unix Domain Socket provided by
:term:`gvmd`/:term:`openvasmd` highly depends on your environment and
:term:`GVM` installation. Its name changed from :file:`openvasmd.sock` in
:term:`GVM 9 <GVM9>` to :file:`gvmd.sock` in :term:`GVM 10 <GVM10>`.

For example in :term:`GOS 4 <GOS>` the path is either
:file:`/run/openvas/openvasmd.sock` or
:file:`/usr/share/openvas/gsa/classic/openvasmd.sock` and for
:term:`GOS 5 <GOS>` the path is either :file:`/run/gvm/gvmd.sock` or
:file:`/usr/share/gvm/gsad/web/gvmd.sock`.

:term:`OSPd based scanners <OSPd>` may be accessed via Unix Domain Sockets too.
The location and name of these sockets is configurable and depends on the used
OSPd scanner implementation.

.. warning::

  Accessing a Unix Domain Socket requires sufficient unix file permissions for

>   the user running the :ref:`command line interface tool <tools>`. Please don't

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the user running the :ref:`command line interface tool <tools>`. Please do not
```

  start a tool as **root** user via :command:`sudo` or :command:`su` only to

>   avoid not being able to access the socket path. Instead please adjust the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  be able to access the socket path. Instead, please adjust the
```
